==== HVAC DOCX ====
LifeSmart                                                       











LifeSmart



HVAC Gateway User Manual


























		1.	Product Brief	3

	Introduction	3

	SPEC	3

	Installation	4

	1.Outlooking Size & Installation Environment	4

	2.Components	4

	3.Installation	5

	4.Wiring Installation Tips	6

		2.	Hardware Configuration	7

	1.Preparation	7

	2. Terminal Choose and Communication pairing	7

	3. Display and button user manual and LED Indicator Instruction	9

		3.	APP Instructions	10

	1.APP Instruction	10

		




Product Brief

Introduction

Thanks for purchasing LifeSmart HVAC gateway, which can easily turned your central AC to become Smart and controller remotely. 

Now the gateway has already supported Daikin, Toshiba, Hitachi, Mitsubishi, Hisense, Haier , Panasonic, York , Midea, LG , BOSCH, GREE and etc. 

The supported references are refreshed continually, details please find sales person for suppot. 

Please review this document before installed. 



SPEC





Item

SPEC

Input Power

DC 12V

Consumption

Below 1.2W 

Working Environment

Temp :0～40℃



Humidity ：20～85%

Gateway port

RJ45


















Installation

1.Outlooking Size & Installation Environment

Installed indoor only and installed hidden 

 

1-1  Out looking and Dimension

2.Components 





（1）Display：Show the contents of communication, display the related parameter like   

connected HVAC brandings and Qty of indoor machines. 

（2）LED indicator：Show status of the Gateway

（3）Buttons：Functional buttons to set up parameters and page up/down functions. 

（4）AIR CON Terminals：For different protocol terminals.  

（5、6、7、8）are terminals for other bus protocol. 

（9）CONFIG 1 ：Dialing terminals( RED) is interface for choosing AIR Con brandings.  

（10）CONFIG 2：Dialing terminals ( BLUE) is interface for  better communication for AIR Con.   

（11）POWER Interface： For Power Supply .PS: Power supply is DC12V. Unfit power supply will cause damage for the device. 

PS 1：LED indicator：

   HBS：When AC communication detected, the indicator will light up. It will flicker though the AC communication rhythm.

   STA：It will keep dark，while  device running normally to search AC











3.Installation 





Living Room





Main Bed Room





2nd Bed Room





Gateway





AC





Pic 2  System Diagram ( （Example is Daikin）



Pic 3 System Diagram (terminal) (Example is Daikin)



Installation of Daikin outdoor / indoor machine should be done by professional HVAC installers.

The communication wire between gateway and HVAC should be:2-core STP (Shielded twisted pair) ,  more than 0.75mm2,under 100, 



4.Wiring Installation Tips 

　　●Different brandings and references, wiring interface is different ( Please check the dialing and interface program) 。

●Please use DC 12V to power the gateway.。

●Improper power connection will cause damage to device。

●Please power off the HVAC and gateway when install or repair  

●Better NOT put communication wire together with the power line to avoid the unexpected disturb. If there is not enough space, please grantee the communication wire distance between gateway and other wire more than 30cm. 

　●If wrongly connect the power line with signal terminal, it will cause fuse burn , please contract LifeSmart . 




Hardware Configuration

1.Preparation 

1.1 Make sure HVAC is on power, including all outdoor / indoor machines. 

1.2 Make sure all functions working well without alarm or report. 

1.3 Distribute network address to each indoor machine. (For all series of Daikin and Toshiba, we need to distribute address manually. For other brandings with only 1 outdoor machine, the indoor machines are distributed automatically) 

1.4 Connect the gateway and HVAC interface as below chart guidance 

2. Terminal Choose and Communication pairing 

2.1 Hardware Interface and dialing plate 



Function：CONFIG 1 ：Dialing terminals( RED) is interface for choosing AIR Con brandings.  

Notice：Improper dialing may cause devices not working. Please consult LifeSmart Service Engineer before making any change to dialing terminals.  

CONFIG 2：Dialing terminals ( BLUE) is interface for  better communication for AIR Con.







2.2 Dialing Terminals and communication terminals for different brandings. 




Brands

Communication  Dialing Code

(BLUE)

Terminal Dialing Code

(RED)

Gateway Terminal

HVAC
Terminal

Terminal Polarity

Daikin-Multi External Machines





F1，F2

F1,F2（Outdoor-Outdoor）

N

Daikin-Single External Machine





F1，F2

F1,F2 (Indoor -Outdoor)

N

Hitachi





F1，F2

1，2

N



Toshiba





F1，F2

U1,U2

N

Mitsubishi

Electric





F1，F2

M1,M2

(TB3/7)

N

York-New





F1，F2

1，2

N

Panasonic





F1，F2

U1，U2

N







F1，F2

U1，U2

N

Hisense





F1，F2

1，2

N

Hair





F1，F2

P，Q

Outdoor

N

GREE





H，L

G1，G2

Outdoor

Y







H，L

D1，D2

Outdoor

Y

Mitsubishi Heavy Industries





X，Y

A1，B1

N

York-Old





X，Y

X，Y

Y

Midea





X，Y

X，Y

Outdoor

Y

Aux





X，Y

X，Y

Y

Bosch





X，Y

X，Y

Y

LG





X，Y

B

(CEN.)

Y

Note:

New version controller doesn’t need to dial the code manually.

The appearance of the new version controller:



3. Display and button user manual and LED Indicator Instruction

3.1 Once the gateway powered with DC 12V , it starts initialization. 



3.2 The initialiaztion will continue like 20secons, and change to “ Able to reset “ status . Right now the LCD display shows “ Right now, you can press set button 5seconds to reset “ Normally if you don’t need reset, wait 20seconds than jump automatically. 



3.3 Start seraching HVAC, right now LCD display show “ Searching HVAC ….
 It takes 2-5 minutes 



   3.4 After searching ends, on the display page , there will be information about the HVAC. You can use rolling up/ down button to see full information. 

 

   3.5 When there is error occurred , the LCD display will show the repairing code . pleaes offer this to aftersale service . 



PS 1：LED indicator：

   HBS：When AC communication detected, the indicator will light up. It will flicker though the AC communication rhythm.

   STA：It will keep dark，while  device running normally to search AC



APP Instructions

1.APP Instruction 

1.1 Make sure you have a LifeSmart Account and with a Smart Station under the account 

1.2 Please click the “add devices in APP, and choose the HVAC Gateway  



 1.3 Back to home page, click left corner LifeSmart – General – All devise – Smart Station – HVAC Gateway – Settings, then slide from right to left at No.1 Address, sync, and choose all groups to retrieve all indoor machines group 



1.4 It will takes about 1-10 minutes at 1st time to sync devices on home page (The devices will show as grey) , then rename each AC device. 





		  /

==== CUBE DOCX ====
CUBE Switch Module



Introduction

The CUBE Switch Module, installed behind the traditional switch, by using the traditional switch’s acts as the trigger of open and closure of the switch module, implements the intelligent control of light, including remote operation, timing switch, linkage with other intelligent devices, etc.

CUBE Switch Module has 2 types (1 way & 2 way). As shown below. 









Installation Prerequisites

The size of production is as below. The installation space must be sure, mainly in the switch bottom box, and there must have a distance of 16 to 20 mm between bottom of traditional switch and switch bottom box. 



1. Expect control line for controlling luminaries in installation location, there must have null line and live line.



2. The load must under control--resistance load within 300W, capacitance or inductive load within 150W.



Installation and Wiring Diagram

1. The CUBE Switch Module is recommended to be installed in the switch bottom box under the traditional switch.



1. The installed antenna, which is out from the switch module, is recommended to be rely on the front and close to the front panel of the traditional switch. Pay attention to keep away as far as possible from metal panel and other cables, and do not overwind and bend!

2. The CUBE Switch Module has two specifications, 1 way (the first picture) and 2 way (the second picture). Wiring instruction diagram is as below.



N and L connects null line and live line;

L1 and L2 are control lines for connecting luminaire.

G, K1 and K2 are control lines for connecting traditional switch, when connecting/ disconnecting G and K1/K2 triggers open/ closure of L1/L2;





Installation Steps

1. 2-way switch module, for example, connects 2-way traditional switch. After taking out the product, check its appearance has no obvious damage and start to install.

1. Connect control line, which means to connect switch module to traditional switch:

Line G connects traditional switch’s common end；

K1 connects traditional switch’s first switch output;

K2 connects traditional switch’s second switch output;





2. Make sure the connect line has been powered off and then prepare to connect electric wire! 

Null line connects to N port；

Live line connects to L port;

Line L1 and L2 connect separately to the first-way and second-way control line of luminaries;


Tips: To avoid exposure of metal wire and potential safety hazard, the length of uncovered metal connector to be plug into switch module should not exceed 5 mm. 


3. Organize the connect lines orderly into bottom box, lock the fixed screw and then the installation is finished. 



Add Device 

1. Sign in your LifeSmart APP account with smart station has been added and then take the following adding steps: 

2. Click “+” on the upper right quarter of the LifeSmart APP: 



Select“Add Device”:





3. Select “CUBE Switch Module”:




4. Press the first-way switch button for 12 times (repeat switch on /off for 6 times) until you hear “ta-ta”sounds to“Start Pairing”:



5. After pairing succeed, you can name the switch module and manage the group, and then click “OK”:





6. You can press the traditional switch directly or click the corresponding icon button on the APP screen to control the connecting luminaire’s on and off.

Device icon on the homepage is as below: 





Click on the blank space to enter the action icon of switch module:





Setup Instruction

Set Default State

Switch module defaults to not be connected to luminaire when power is on. If you need to open automatically as soon as power on, the operation method is as below:

A. Press traditional switch or use APP to open relevant switch button;

B. Enter the button “More”to set up menu;


C. Click “Settings”;





D. Press “Save as Default”. 




Schedule

Through setting schedule, you can open or close the switch module at any point of time. Take an example of “ close at 8 o’clock everyday” and the process is as below:

1. Enter the button “More”to set up menu;



2. Choose “Schedule”:




3. Choose the relevant switch and click on “+”to add schedule;



4. Set up a certain schedule, including time, action, etc., and click on tick on the upper right quarter and submit:



5. Then the new schedule you just created appears on the screen and the selected tick means the schedule is at work, otherwise it is paused and will not be executed;



Trigger

Through setting trigger, switch module can implement linkage with other intelligent devices, which means the state change of other devices can trigger action of switch module and vice versa. 

Take an example of “CUBE clicker to make switch module open”, and the process is as below:

0. In order to make the switch perform action, you need to enter “More”to set up menu;



1. Choose “Trigger”:





2. Choose relevant switch and then click on “+”to add linkage:



3. Set up certain linkage, including condition, act, etc., and click on tick on the upper right quarter and submit:







4. Then the new linkage you just created successfully appears on the screen and the selected tick means the schedule is at work, otherwise it is paused and will not be executed;





Intelligence Template

Through setting functions of AI by intelligence template, it can be a trigger condition and can be controlled by AI.

Take a simple AI example of“a switch module triggers another one”, the process is as below:

0. Enter the page of creating intelligence template, add two device control units and a Boolean ( to receive a switch module’s state input), a value map( to set up the controlled switch module) and a NOT, the connecting relevant module is as below:





1. Format the Boolean, and choose the type of “Switch” directly. 



2. Set up a value map, and also choose the type of “Switch”. 



3. Go back and then you can choose the switch module:



4. The set-up intelligence template is shown as below;

==== GENERAL CONTROLLER PDF ====
Ge n e r a l  C o n t r o l l e r
Scott，2020.10

Contents
In this course, you will learn,
-What is general controller
-I/O definition
-Working mode and use cases
-App settings
What is general controller
LifeSmart General Controller is a professional engineer 
device. It provides dry contact input and output, makes 
conventional appliance smart. By connecting to general 
controller, sensors, motors and switches can be integrated 
to LifeSmart system, to achieve remote control, timed 
control, trigger and scene mode and etc..
Sensor Curtain Motor
 DC Motor
 Contactor
I/O Definition
•One pairing button, o ne indication light
•5.5 mm * 2.5 mm 12/24 DC power in
(connected to DC+, GND, you choose either interface to power the 
device, do not connect power for both of the interface at the same 
time)
•Input: DC+, GND and K1, K2, K3
•Output: COM+, COM -, CH1, CH2, CH3
•The maximum load for general controller is 
3A
Working mode –Free mode

Working mode –Free mode –Use case
•Connect to Smoke Sensor
DC12V + GND NC/NO COM Blue connect to DC 12V+
Red connect to GND
K1 connect to NC/NOGND connects to COM
Working mode –DC m otor

Working mode –DC motor –Use case
CH1 CH2 connect to motor
To get power:
Com+ connects to GND
Com -connects to DC+
Working mode –Two way curtains
ON
OFF
STOP
ON
OFF
Curtain motorL
N
Working mode –Three way curtains
ON
OFF
STOP
OFF
L
N
Curtain motorON
OFF
STOP
Working mode –Three way switch

App Setting
-Set working mode
-Follow and jog
➢Follow: When there is input signal, switch will reverse. For example: If K1 and GND connects once, 
CH1 will reverse, if K1 and GND connects again, CH1 will reverse again.
➢Jog: When there is input signal, switch will open, if there is no input signal, switch will close. For 
example: If K1 and GND connects, CH1 connects to COM+, if K1 and GND disconnect, CH1 
disconnects to COM+
-Set delay time to auto close
THANK YOU

==== HOW TO REALIZE DOUBLE PDF ====
 
DO YOU  KNOW?  - HOW  DOES  THE SINGLY  SWITCH  MODULE  ACHIEVE  DUAL  CONTROL?  You know  what?  
How does  the Cube  Switch  Module  achieve  dual control?  
 
LifeSmart   -  2019 -5-30 
 
❖ Option  1: 
① Prerequisites:  
 2 traditional  switches,  1 Cube  Switch  Module , and 2 switch  boxes  with three  
connectors  wires , one of the switch  boxes  has Natural, Live, and light control  wires . 
 
 
 
 
 
❖ Option  2: 
① Prerequisites:  
 2 traditional  switches,  2 Cube  switch  modules,  2 switch  boxes  have  Natural  and 
Live wires and1  switch box with light control  wire.  
② How to connect:  
 
 
 
